- [Instructor] Let us now understand what type erasure is.
When you write code with generics.
And then when you compile that code
the generics information is erased or removed.
This process is called type erasure.
This essentially means
that generics provides type safety checks
only at the compile time.
And this information is not carried
in the bytecode that gets executed at runtime.
So what really happens in the type erasure process.
In this the Java compiler
is going to replace your type parameters.
And there are two scenarios here.
One is when your generic type has unbounded type parameters.
In that case
the compiler will re place those type parameters
with the Object type.
The second scenario is when your generic type
has bounded type parameters.
In that case, the parameters will be replaced
with the corresponding bounds.
In addition to this, the compiler also ensures
that it applies all the appropriate casts
to maintain the compatibility
with the types that specify your type arguments.
This means that the type safety checks
and the implicit costs
that were available at the compile time
will apply at runtime as well.
Let us see a couple of examples
and then let's see how the source
and compiled code differs in type erasure.
Let's say you have a class Box of T
or example in the application.
And inside that you have an instance variable data
which is of the type T.
When this code compiles it will look like this,
public class Box.
And now you see
that the type parameter that was defined is gone.
It's erased.
When you come inside that class
the data variable that you had
the type of that data is now changed to Object.
So this is what happens.
The type parameter T
is going to be replaced by the object type.
And that is because this Box of T
is an unbounded generic type.
The other example is with the bounded types.
So let's say you have a class
Box of T extends Boxable.
And inside you have a data variable again,
the instance variable,
which is of the type T.
When this code compiles it'll look like this,
public class Box,
again, that bounded type in formation is gone
and inside the T is replaced by the Boxable type.
That is because Boxable is the first bound
that it found in your generics source code.
So this is how the source and compiled code will look like.
And please note that this compiled code that you see
is not the exact bytecode,
it a representation of how
the compiled code would look like.
So now the question is why is this type erasure needed?
There are a few reasons, let's understand.
First is to maintain or support legacy code.
But before the advent of generics
all the code was written in Java with raw types.
When generics came in
Java could not introduce any breaking changes
in the older code.
It could not ignore it.
It could not do away with it.
It also needed a mechanism to ensure
that today when you write code with generics,
you are able to pass parameterized types
to methods with raw types and vice versa.
So in order to maintain this compatibility
with the pre generics code,
and to ensure that the old and the new code
work in harmony with each other.
The type erasure process was formulated.
The other reason was to ensure
that there are no new classes created
for parameterized types.
So when you invoke a generic type,
let's say box of fruit or list of integer,
there are no separate classes that get created
for these invocations.
The last reason is to ensure
that there is no runtime overhead.
This means that the type safety checks
and the implicit casts that you got at compile time.
None of them will apply at runtime.
So there is no additional processing, no overhead.
Also, there is neither an improvement in the performance
nor a reduction.
So at the end of the day,
the performance of a generics list will be exactly the same
as that of the raw list.
Type erasure process applies to generic types
which means generic classes,
generic interfaces, and methods.
There is one last bit of information
that we need to understand in type erasure.
That is generic's metadata in the .class files.
In order to do this
let's look at the decompiled version
of the ArrayList class in our IntelliJ IDE.
So let's head back to the IDE
and let's open the ArrayList class.
So let's open GenericsCode
and somewhere we have referenced the ArrayList class.
Yeah, on line number eight.
So I'm just going to say, Ctrl + Click.
This file that you see
is the decompiled class that is provided by IntelliJ IDE.
And in this you would assume,
or you would expect
that the generics information is missing.
So let's go and see the declaration.
Let's scroll at the top.
And if you see on line 108
you still see the generics information.
You still see ArrayList of E,
AbstractList off E, et cetera.
So this information that you see
is actually the metadata information about generics
that is preserved in your .class file.
Now your .class file does not have only the bytecode.
It also has a lot of metadata.
And one piece of this metadata is the generics information.
Question is why do you need it?
This is needed in case when your code
is going to be used or consumed by somebody else.
Let's understand this scenario.
Let's say you have Box APIs
all coded and ready to be shipped.
Now there is a third party
that wants to consume the Box APIs.
So this third party is going to refer
all your .class files in their project.
And let's say there is a developer
in the environment of the third party
who wants to write a code line like this.
Box of chocolate, chocolates equal to new Box.
Now in order
that the local compiler on that developer's machine
understands that your Box APIs do support generics
We need that generics information preserved
in the .class files.